Definitions from "Ships' Routeing" (1998)

  Routeing system

    Any system of one or more routes or routeing measures aimed at
    reducing the risk of casualties; it includes traffic separation
    schemes, two-way routes, recommended tracks, areas to be avoided,
    inshore traffic zones, roundabouts, precautionary areas and
    deep-water routes.

  Mandatory routeing system

   A routeing system adopted by the Organization, in accordance with
   the requirements of regulation V/8 of the International Convention
   for the Safety of Life at Sea 1974, for mandatory use by all ships,
   certain categories of ships or ships carrying certain cargoes.

  Traffic separation scheme*

    A routeing measure aimed at the separation of opposing streams of
    traffic by appropriate means and by the establishment of traffic
    lanes.

  Separation zone or line*

    A zone or line separating the traffic lanes in which ships are
    proceeding in opposite or nearly opposite directions; or
    separating a traffic lane from the adjacent sea area; or
    separating traffic lanes designated for particular classes of ship
    proceeding in the same direction.

  Traffic lane*

    An area within defined limits in which one-way traffic is
    established. Natural obstacles, including those forming
    separation zones, may constitute a boundary.

  Roundabout

    A routeing measure comprising a separation point or circular
    separation zone and a circular traffic lane within defined limits.
    Traffic within the roundabout is separated by moving in a
    counterclockwise direction around the separation point or zone.

  Inshore traffic zone*

    A routeing measure comprising a designated area between the
    landward boundary of a traffic separation scheme and the adjacent
    coast, to be used in accordance with the provisions of Rule 10(d),
    as amended, of the International Regulations for Preventing
    Collisions at Sea, 1972 (Collision Regulations).

  Two-way route

    A route within defined limits inside which two-way traffic is
    established, aimed at providing safe passage of ships through
    waters where navigation is difficult or dangerous.

  Recommended route

    A route of undefined width, for the convenience of ships in
    transit, which is often marked by centreline buoys.

  Recommended track

    A route which has been specially examined to ensure so far as
    possible that it is free of dangers and along which ships are
    advised to navigate.

  Deep-water route

    A route within defined limits which has been accurately surveyed
    for clearance of sea bottom and submerged obstacles as indicated
    on the chart.

  Precautionary area

    A routeing measure comprising an area within defined limits where
    ships must navigate with particular caution and within which the
    direction of traffic flow may be recommended.

  Area to be avoided

    A routeing measure comprising an area within defined limits in
    which either navigation is particularly hazardous or it is
    exceptionally important to avoid casualties and which should be
    avoided by all ships, or certain classes of ship.

  Established direction of traffic flow

    A traffic flow pattern indicating the directional movement of
    traffic as established within a traffic separation scheme.

  Recommended direction of traffic flow

    A traffic flow pattern indicating a recommended directional
    movement of traffic where it is impractical or unnecessary to
    adopt an established direction of traffic flow.


* These terms are used in the 1972 Collision Regulations.

---

enumeration category {
  enum "traffic separation scheme";
  enum "inshore traffic zone";
  enum "recommended route";
  enum "two-way route";
  enum "deep-water route";
  enum "precautionary area";
  enum "area to be avoided";
}

enumeration type {
  enum "separation zone" {
    description
      "Part of a traffic separation scheme";
  }
  enum "separation line" {
    description
      "Part of a traffic separation scheme";
  }
  enum "traffic lane" {
    description
      "Part of a traffic separation scheme";
  }
}

categories: traffic separation scheme
              separation zone
              separation line
              traffic lane

            inshore traffic zone

            recommended track

            recommended route

            two-way route

            deep-water route

            precautionary area

            area to be avoided
